you know uh
we're going to reconvene from closed
session and they're just certify and
related action items but first we need a
roll call Mr Burton
here Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson Miss
Merricks Mr Mills here Mr Moon Mr Dallas
here I have a motion to certify clothes
roll call please
Mr Burton yes Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr
Henderson yes Miss Merricks Mr Mills yes
Mr Moon Mr Doss yes okay items from
close please we have a motion to expel a
student with offer placement at the
regional alternative school for
continuing Educational Services must
maintain a c average and will offer
participation in the third millennium
program upon parent approval
summer move second any discussion roll
call please Mr Burton yes Mr Fitzgerald
yes Mr Henderson Miss Merricks Mr Mills
yes Mr Moon Mr dolls yes
we have a motion to approve the
Personnel changes for July 11 2023 and
the recommendations for academic and
coaching assignments for 2023 2024 as
presented so
second of a motion in a second any
discussion on it
roll call please Mr Burton president Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes Miss
Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr docs
yes
and we have a recommendation from the
superintendent yep Dr Jones Mr Dawson
School members I would like to recommend
to you all this evening the new
principal of Dan River High School uh he
is here in the audience I'd like to
recognize Dr Josh bocock Dr bocock thank
you for being here this evening he
currently serves as the Director of the
Piedmont Governor school he's done that
served in that capacity for four years
he has served as assistant principal at
Bassett High School for two years he was
secondary curriculum coordinator for a
year in Henry County he served as a
teacher at Magna Vista High School for
nine years and at Nottoway high school
for one year he has a ba and a masters
from James Madison University also his
Master's in leadership from James
Madison and his Doctorate Mr Burton from
Virginia Tech so welcome to see
we need a little we need a motion to
approve him
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton yes Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr
Henderson yes Miss Merricks Mr mayles
yes Mr Moon Mr Dobbs yes thank you for
being here I hope you know what you've
gotten yourself into
when we do welcome you to the
Pennsylvania county school family we
look forward to working with you it's
good to have such a qualified candidate
so appreciate it
we have any additions to the agenda yes
sir we have procurement bids for HVAC at
Stony Mill Elementary School
that's already on there yes already it's
okay so that's ten seven so don't have a
motion to approve the agenda as amended
I do
so move
D roll call please Mr Burton yes Mr
Fitzgerald yes
Henderson yes Miss Merricks to meals
Mr Moon Mr Dallas yes consent agenda
move we approved circuit
any discussion roll call please Mr
Burton yes Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr
Henderson yes Miss Merricks yes Mr Mills
yes Mr Moon Mr Doss yes
um up next is public presentations and
announcements uh if you see any new
employees in here besides the principal
yes sir I do okay you might recognizing
I'm sure I'll be glad to
apologize
okay
we often have Miss Stacy Gammon she's
joining us as well she's a teacher for
the kindergarten in the league
Elementary School to welcome her and we
also have
any questions
Dr Botox
congratulations and welcome to the
Pennsylvania county school family thank
you
pea I don't think she's going to be here
and anybody else from a pea here going
to speak
okay
um
staff and committee reports does anybody
have any questions on any of the deaths
reports
if not Dr Jones you out yes sir and Mr
Dahl school board members I just have a
few items this this evening I first like
to provide in your packet under and
under staff reports there was
information from Mr Scott regarding the
safety training taking place on July the
31st at Gretna Middle School just
reminds you that if you want to
participate please let Mr Scott know we
can surely place you in a position at
Gretna Middle School and to experience
this this training exercise I believe it
begins about eight o'clock that morning
so eight o'clock on July 31st at Gretna
Middle School legislative breakfast
right now is tentative date for that
it's Friday September the 8th at nine
o'clock in the boardroom
Middle School athletics update of we've
ordered and received most of the
equipment we have not received at this
point the referee stand portable
practice set and pole padding for Dan
River Middle School
we have right now Mr Mayhew provided
information about coaches I think we all
have we have all the head coaching
positions filled we just have some
information that we need to receive
regarding the one from Gretna Middle
School
and then the schedule kind of give you
an idea about schedule
for Middle School volleyball they will
begin practice on August the 17th and
end the season on August on October the
26th the first game right now is
scheduled to begin August the 30th if he
played on August the 30th
we're going to play each County School
twice and then we're speaking with the
Piedmont District Junior League to
schedule their games we're also reaching
out to The Dogwood to see about
scheduling some of the northern counties
with the Dogwood District to get some
more games in so things are moving along
very quickly quickly with that
it looks like it's shaping up well any
questions regarding
Athletics or middle schools Dr Jones if
I might
you know we've been talking about this
for several years
Middle School sports it's now come to uh
Forefront I want to thank you because
you've been behind it a hundred percent
I don't know if everybody knew that but
you supported the Implement of this
program thank you so much for doing that
thank you thank you very much and Mr
Hudson and Mr Scott and the principals
as well have been working hard to get
this in place we feel like it's a good
opportunity for our students and then if
you recall also we're going to have boys
basketball in the winter this year so
and thank you Mr Anderson for all that
you've done and board members as well
for supporting this uh July principals
and supervisors meeting is going to be
held on July the 24th it's going to be a
Tustin Middle School this year from
eight to four board members are welcome
at any time we have breakfast at eight
and then we have lunch that we're around
noon probably need to get there about 11
30 sometimes that that kind of
fluctuates for lunch if you wish to it
to participate with lunch
uh new employee orientation this year is
on August the 26th and 27th
first day of school for teachers is
August the 2nd
first day of school for students is
August the 9th and then just a reminder
the vsba conferences the conference on
education is being held on July the 13th
in Richmond at the Hilton Richmond Hotel
and that's all I had this evening Mr
Doss thank you Dr Jones
okay no one finished beat this will move
on to new business the 2022
2023 budget summary a request for
carryover for the
22-23 school year it was a pretty large
carryover Miss warley but a lot going on
right yes sir good evening chairman Dahl
school board members and staff I want to
give you just a brief summary of fiscal
year 2023 and and how that went we
managed a
128.6 million dollar budget this past
year and that's all funding State local
and federal and of course cares money
was in there as well I wanted to just
hit a few highlights of what we were
able to do this past year we provided an
average seven percent salary increase to
contract employees we provided bonuses
to employees in November of 2022 one
thousand dollar full-time 500 part-time
we increase the employer share for
health insurance and we also started
making an annual deposit into employees
health savings accounts
we've juggled several on large
construction projects we have two HVAC
projects going on multiple Roofing
projects and of course
um just general maintenance on all of
our facilities we purchased two electric
buses and we are we'll be adding as soon
as they come in I believe
this month I hope another 11 buses to
our Fleet and we purchased two
additional electric buses
um we continue to use our federal
pandemic funds to hire additional staff
provide additional technology to our
classrooms including implementing a
one-to-one device initiative I mean
we've also worked with the county on
broadband and some other construction
projects
and all this all that time we were also
managing a staff of approximately 1500
employees maintaining instructional
programs for over 7 500 students and
meeting all of our financial obligations
for the year
and if it was as nice and neat and quick
as that little paragraph Was
um I missed that part so it sounds
really easy and simple there doesn't it
um we do have a 9.5 million dollar
carryover that is large
um I have already alerted the county
I've been doing that for the past two
months and you can see here I'm not
going to go over all the items there are
a lot of Grant funds that we already
have received and for certain programs
so they're they're being carried over
most of those are the same from year to
year
um you do see we are carrying over 1.4
million dollars for the Stony Mill HVAC
project you'll be um talking about that
later I think
um
we have some replacement Vehicles you
see we have some FY 22 carryovers we
carried it over last year we've still
not been able to order these vehicles so
we're carrying this money over again in
hopes that we'll be able to make those
purchases
um we're carrying over money for school
buses that is um
because the buses were supposed to be
here several different times we thought
they were coming in June
um and we had the opportunity to
purchase two additional buses besides
the ones that are on our lease from last
year they had ordered a couple of extra
in case our electric buses didn't come
through and because we were able to
provide funding for that we went ahead
and and purchased those as well
textbooks as always we have a very large
carryover for that you can see the high
school band Towers here the armored one
entry window film
the maintenance Warehouse we we have
some things ordered but we're still
working to try to get that completed
um and the ongoing maintenance projects
you can see they are our general year
end painting different flooring
um we have ordered the ice storage
tiller for Gretna High School the HVAC
Chiller and Air Handlers for Stony Mill
have already been ordered but these
things they have not come in and we have
not paid those invoices yet and then for
vocational and I.T same thing they are
these were some things they had ordered
towards the end of the year and we need
to to pay those invoices when they come
in
so what I will need from you on this is
to approve this carryover for us to
submit to the Board of Supervisors and
we will ask them um to of course to
appropriate that to our budget for next
year any questions
any questions from MS warley
I have a motion to approve it
you make it here okay
any other discussion
roll call please Mr Burton yes Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes Miss
Merricks yes Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Doss yes and categorical categorical
adjustments additions Appropriations and
get some more you need to move I do yes
so um the next item on your agenda this
is um
sort of settling up the year end we have
to get our categories correct um because
the Board of Supervisors they do approve
our expenditures by category and we also
have to have some additional
Appropriations for this past school year
for the general fund as well as the
school nutrition fund the the general
operating fund we need an amendment of
5.9 million dollars approximately and
you can see in board docs you can see
that information and it's basically
additional revenues that we received
this past school year outside of our
budget that we approved
the cafeteria fund the school nutrition
fund that's the the sort of the same
type of thing I did want to make one
clarification for you they did take in
um more federal and state revenues than
the budget that we adopted but they also
had to spend some of their fund balance
this past year and so that was not in
the operating budget for school
nutrition that all totals to about 1.2
million dollars and I want to tell you
why they had to spend some fund balance
Federal Regulations state that school
nutrition programs can only carry a cash
balance that equals about three months
of an average operating expenditures
when you exceed that you get a nice
little phone call from bdoe and they
talk to you about putting together a
plan to spend some of that money so
that's where we are and we have spent we
spent about a little over five hundred
thousand dollars this past year on some
things that were needed for the school
nutrition program and at June 30 we had
brought that down we're about four
months we have about four months worth
of operating expenditures and I think we
can probably sit on that for a little
while because you know operations will
obviously be more um next school year
but we are working with on the state to
spend that down
so what I need from you tonight is just
to approve um
the additional the amendment to the
budget to go to the Board of Supervisors
for an additional appropriation and then
of course the um categorical year-end
transfers
any questions on any of that
questions I have a motion in a second to
approve it
exactly Motion in the second broke on
please Mr Burton yeah Mr Fitzgerald yes
Mr Henderson yes Miss Merricks Mr Mills
yes Mr Moon Mr Doss yes
okay
um I need a motion to approve the sick
leave Bank committee that's in your
Bulldogs
Motion in a second any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton yes Mr
Fitzgerald Mr Henderson Ms Merricks Mr
Mills yes Mr Moon Mr Dallas yes
and the 2030-24 budget committee will
consist of myself Miss Merricks and Mr
Fitzgerald
and we need next we have a procurement
bed for school nutrition program of a
motion to approve that
so moo second
any discussion
roll call please Mr Burton yes Mr
Fitzgerald Mr Henderson Miss Merricks Mr
Mayo's yes Mr Moon Mr doc yes
yes and a revision of school board
policy
jhcd and minister in medicines to
students I'm going to wave at a first
reading and prove it for this reading I
believe it just added the Narcan is that
correct
have a motion so move
any discussion no call please Mr Burton
yes Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes
Miss Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
Doss yes
and you have at your desk tonight that
was added a procurement bid for Stony
Mill Elementary School HVAC and window
replacement
um I think Dewberry did the plans
and the project was quoted and the low
bid was trained correct Mr Hudson
I think you see it here seven million
446 544 554.
you have a motion
so move
second
any discussion anything you'd like to
say about it Mr Hudson
okay
is that going to be done this within the
next calendar 12 months or is it going
to be longer than that
okay I'm sorry he said start next time
he said started next someone finishing
the phone that's my question
okay that's good
anybody have any other questions for Ms
Thompson
I see trained reps here anybody have any
questions for her
roll call please Mr Burton I would not
get a motion in a second
Mr Burton yes Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr
Henderson yes Miss Merricks Mr Mills yes
Mr Moon Mr Dallas yes
I don't have anything else motion toward
Jared
second give a second
roll call please Mr Burton
Mr Fitzgerald yes Miss Henderson yes
Miss Merricks Mr Mills yes Mr Moon Mr
dolls yes